It is primarily through our identification with social groups that we define ourselves.

SAMPLE
As the world's population continues to rapidly  extend, there are now more individuals than
ever striving to define themselves. Kepping pace with the rise in population is the rise in
availability of information that provides individuals with numerous ways to define ourselves. How
However, despite these modern trends the way we fefine ourselves today is similar to how humans
defined themselves thousands of years ago because of powerful innate mechanisms we share with 
our ancestors. As a result, I agree with the statement that it is primarily through our identification
with social groups that wwe define ourselves.

Firt, we define ourselves primarily through our identification with social groups for biological
reasons. Though they are now primarily a vestige of the past, humans, like many other social animals, 
long depended on identification with social groups for survival and reproduction. For example, for
early humans acceptance into a social group was likely paramount to survival, as social groups 
provided increased access to food, protection, shelter, and mates. But, in order to secure the 
benefits of membership in a social group for both the individual and the group, it was important 
that members strongly identified with the group. Strong identification was necessary because 
early man had to contend not only with nature but aso rival huamn social groups. This formidable
environment also led to specialization of roles that led to increased identification of oneself
as a member of the group. As a result of this conditioning, the huamn tendency to define ourselves
through identification with social groups remain just as obvious as pur physical vestige.

Furthermore, modern humans continue to define ourselves by identifying with social groups
because we are trained to do so from birth. This is true because everyone is born into a
familial social group. In the family, even infants soon begin to define themselves by their
role in the group. For example, our tendacy to define ourselves through identification with
groups becomes obivous when studying the effects of birth order on the personality of an 
individual. Expecting the parents, power is usually disturbed in nuclear families according to
age. The order of birth of a group of siblings has a significant impact on each individual 
because each is forced to define himself according to his role in the family. As a consequence,
eldest siblings tend to be more responsible whereas youngest siblings commonly need more
attention. Thus, we difine ourselves in this way because we are trained to so from infancy.

Finally, we difine ourselves through social groups because most people have an innate fear of
not belonging to a group. Perhaps this fear results from the dire consequneces of not belonging
to a social group for early man. Despite its origins, this common fear has a powerful effect on
how we define ourselves. Because most people are afraid of having no social group to identify 
with, people will often take on traits of a group in order to gain acceptance into it. When 
acceptance into a group is gained in this way it greatly influences how an individual defines 
himself. Admittedly, there are people who refuse to identify with a group and define themselves
through other means that are purely personal. However, because such people are relatively rare
the statement remains true as it only argues that we primarily identify with groups. Because 
most people take on the traits of social groups it is clear that we primarily define ourselves 
through identification with groups.
